a urinary tract infection is a bacterial
infection of the urinary tract the leads
to symptoms of burning on urination
urgency and urinary frequency the
conventional treatment for urinary tract
infections or antibiotics the problem
with antibiotics is that they create a
disruption in the good bacteria in the
body and that can weaken your immune
system and actually lead to more urinary
tract infections diagnosing a urinary
tract infection is relatively
straightforward what's more complicated
is if someone gets this urinary tract
infection chronically and then we really
need to look at that individual and see
why and answer the question why is she
getting it repetitively so I take a
comprehensive history to figure this out
and look for any triggers like a
weakened immune system or history of
antibiotic use or possible food
sensitivities or if they're getting
these urinary tract infections after
sexual intercourse that it could be
triggered by that or by a condoms or by
spermicide all of which can contribute
to increased urinary tract infections I
also get a urine sample always because
that will diagnose if there actually is
indeed a urinary tract infection so in
the urine I'm looking for signs of
infection such as bacteria white blood
cells elevated leukocyte esterase
nitrates blood and if those are positive
it confirms an infection and I send out
the urine for culture and sensitivity
which takes a few days to come back but
when it comes back I'll know what
bacteria is causing the infection and
which antibiotics that bacteria is
sensitive to that so in the unique case
that we need to go to the antibiotics
will know the most appropriate one it's
also important to rule out fever or
tenderness where the kidneys are because
that could be a sign of kidney infection
which would require more laboratory
tests a and more aggressive treatment so
my treatment for urinary tract
infections is to give immune supportive
therapies antimicrobial therapies and to
address any triggers that might have
contributed to the urinary tract
infection so with respect to immune
support I recommend an immune supportive
diet
which limits sugar since the sugar is
immune suppressive and I would recommend
immune supportive herbs and vitamins
like vitamin C or zinc I'd also
recommend increasing water because water
helps to flush bacteria from the from
the bladder and also unsweetened
cranberry juice and on sweet blueberry
juice also help to fight urinary tract
infections d-mannose is a naturally
occurring sugar which works great for
urinary tract infections what it does is
it binds to bacteria certain types of
bacteria specifically a coli which is
actually the number one cause of most
urinary tract infections and it binds to
the e.coli so we just flush it out so
the coli can't bind to the bladder and I
always recommend a probiotic to help
balance the flora in the urinary tract
and digestive tract I might even
recommend both oral and vaginal
probiotics to really help repopulate the
area when it comes to vitamins I'll
recommend immune support like vitamin C
and zinc and with respect to herbs I
would recommend herbs that have a really
good antimicrobial immune supportive
effect along the urinary tract such as
boo chew or over RC echinacea goldenseal
marshmallow all of which can be very
helpful for urinary tract infections and
in extreme cases when natural therapies
aren't effective in treating the urinary
tract infection I would prescribe an
antibiotic based upon the culture and
sensitivity so that the right antibiotic
is prescribed for this infection my
success rate for treating chronic
urinary tract infections is pretty high
once the cause of the urinary tract
infections are identified and corrected
and the body's giving the appropriate
vitamins minerals and dietary changes it
needs to maintain an optimum level of
health most women can remain symptom
free if someone wants to reverse their
chronic urinary tract infections I
recommend a natural living lifestyle
that includes a Whole Foods organic diet
that limits sugars and refined
carbohydrates drinking a lot of pure
water and I strongly encourage seeing a
naturopathic doctor who can accurately
identify the triggers for the urinary
tract
chin and recommended individualized
treatment plan